Brittney's Blog
"A Response to DBC's Culture of Empathy and Tenacity"

September 20, 2014


One of the biggest things that sets DevBootcamp apart from other coding bootcamps is its emphasis on human interaction and understanding. DevBootcamp doesn't prepare its students to sit in little cubicles for 8 hours a day, shut off from sunlight and conversation. DevBootcamp prepares students to become team members, problem solvers, on-their-toes-thinkers, and from-the-heart engagers. And I can't wait to be in a classroom full of the teachers and students who have been selected to undertake this personal and collective challenge!

Until the beginning of this summer, I had never imagined in my wildest dreams that I would enter into the world of technology. Seriously... in the past year I had just discovered what the tab button does while on websites that ask for information input... and that my iPhone had a flashlight built in (I downloaded an app for that). I'm not ashamed to admit these things because I'm not ashamed of who I am. I have worked really hard developing other skills and acquiring other knowledge over the past 27 years of my life. But then something shifted in me. I would say that a courage surfaced that I had never experienced before. I say that I worked really hard at other skills, and I did, but in all honesty the skills I developed were skills that came naturally to me. Technology is all brand new territory for me, and to take this leap of faith has taken tremendous courage. If I learn nothing about actual coding, I am still so proud of myself to have mustered up this courage that I didn't even know I had. This is why I chose DevBootcamp, and why I am honored that they have chosen me. DevBootcamp sees something in me that I didn't even see, and they see something in every student that has been chosen. This is incredible! We don't get that in traditional education systems. Traditional education systems don't even meet you. DevBootcamp has a personal video chat before they chose who they will accept. Traditional education systems base acceptance on how good you look on paper. DevBootcamp uses intuition and the sense of personal connection to accept applicants, and I am so excited to be a part of the community they have knitted together.

I am a people-person. I have been a server in the restaurant industry for about 10 years and I was going to be a teacher. The thought of having to sit at a desk isolated in corporate America was soul crushing to me. I have friends who are developers in San Francisco, but even after knowing them and knowing what they do, my mind wasn't pursuaded to even think about learning coding. Then one day I typed into my google search "coding bootcamp" and the very first link to come up was DevBootcamp, so I followed the link. Right away I was introduced to the colorful DBC culture of engineering empathy and mindfulness. I checked out the page of teachers and saw all these friendly, smiling faces staring back at me, and I was hooked! Now after going through the pre-prep work and one week of phase 0 I am even more hooked. I have seen several videos made by the creators of DBC and they are so personable and humble—they are people-people, and that puts someone like me, who knows nothing about the world of computers at ease because I know they aren't going to judge me based on my knowledge, but my willingness to engage and talk and explore, and that is something I know I can do. I am also more at ease knowing that the world of technology isn't just filled with code pushing people stuck at desks all day—its a community of social creatures that want to improve themselves and help others improve too, whether those other people are their co-workers or the people who they build better apps and software for.

Like I said before, if I learn nothing about actual coding, I will not consider any of this journey nil and void (pun intended), because the transformation that has already taken place, and that will only continue to grow, has been life changing. I am eternally grateful to be given this opportunity at DevBootcamp and for the creators of this marvelous experiment.